Welcome to the final
section of this course!
Here, we'll be
introducing tools and
programming languages that are
commonly used in
the security field.
They are essential for
monitoring security in
an organization
because they enhance
efficiency by automating tasks.
Although we're only introducing
these concepts and
tools at this point,
later in the program,
you'll have opportunities
to use them in
a variety of
hands-on activities.
In the following videos,
you'll learn about
security information and
event management, or SIEM, tools.
You'll also be introduced
to other tools such as
playbooks and network
protocol analyzers.
Then, you'll learn about the
Linux operating system and
security-related tasks
that are initiated through
programming languages,
such as SQL and Python.
For me, SQL is one of
the most useful tools.
It allows me to explore
all the different data
sources we collect,
and it allows my team to
analyze the data for trends.
Take your time going
through the videos
and if you need
to, re-watch them.
Also know that
these tools will be
discussed in much more detail,
and you will be able
to practice them
firsthand, later in the
certificate program.
While every organization has
their own set of tools and
training materials that you'll
learn to use on the job,
this program will provide you
with foundational
knowledge that will
help you succeed in
the security industry.
Let's get started!